---
layout: post
title: $TDG bizoverview
categories: $TDG bizoverview
---

TransDigm designs, produces, and supplies aircraft components. They're generally considered a high quality business with strong barriers to entry. The quote below from TDG cofounder Nick Howley describes their shareholder focus.

>To reiterate, we're unique in the industry in both the consistency of our strategy in good and bad times as well as our steady focus on intrinsic shareholder value creation through all phases of the aerospace cycle. To summarize, here are some of the reasons why we believe this.
>About 90% of our sales are generated by proprietary products and over 3/4 of our net sales come from products for which we believe we are the sole source provider.
>Most of our EBITDA comes from aftermarket revenues, which generally have significantly higher margins and over any extended period of time have typically provided relative stability in the downturns.
>We follow a consistent long-term strategy. Specifically, we own and operate proprietary aerospace businesses with significant aftermarket content. Second, we utilize a second -- a simple, well-proven, value-based operating methodology. Third, we have a decentralized organization structure and a unique compensation system closely aligned with our shareholders. Fourth, we acquire businesses that fit this strategy and where we see a clear path to PE-like returns. And lastly, our capital structure and allocation of our capital are key parts of our value creation methodology.
>Our long-standing goal is to give our shareholders private equity-like returns with the liquidity of a public market.

## Segments

TDG operates three business segments:
* Power & Control (53% of revenues) includes systems and components that controls non-engine power of the aircraft. These include pumps and valves utilizing electronic, fluid, and mechanical control technologies.
* Airframe (44% of revenues) includes systems and components that are used in non-power airframe applications utilizing airframe and cabin structure technologies. These include audio systems, engineered latching and locking devices, and cockpit controls.
* Non-aviation (3% of revenues) product offering includes mechanical/electro-mechanical actuators and controls, parachutes and seat belts, and safety restraints. Non-aviation products are sold for both aircraft and space applications.


